CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to RVToolsMerge

First off, thank you for considering contributing to RVToolsMerge! It's people like you that make this tool better for everyone.

Following these guidelines helps to communicate that you respect the time of the developers managing and developing this open source project. In return, they should reciprocate that respect in addressing your issue, assessing changes, and helping you finalize your pull requests.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

-   [.NET 9 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download) or later
-   An IDE that supports C# (Visual Studio, Visual Studio Code with C# extension, Rider, etc.)
-   Basic knowledge of C# and .NET
-   Familiarity with Git and GitHub workflow

### Setting Up Development Environment

1. Fork the repository on GitHub
2. Clone your fork locally:
    ```
    git clone https://github.com/yourusername/RVToolsMerge.git
    ```
3. Add the original repository as a remote to keep your fork in sync:
    ```
    git remote add upstream https://github.com/sbroenne/RVToolsMerge.git
    ```
4. Create a branch for your changes:
    ```
    git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name
    ```

## Repository Structure

The repository follows standard GitHub practices:

```
RVToolsMerge/
├── .github/           # GitHub-specific files (workflows)
├── docs/              # Documentation files
├── src/               # Source code
│   └── RVToolsMerge/  # .NET project
├── CHANGELOG.md       # Version history
├── CONTRIBUTING.md    # Guidelines for contributors (this file)
├── LICENSE            # MIT License file
├── README.md          # Main documentation
├── run.bat            # Windows script to run the application
├── run.sh             # Linux/macOS script to run the application
└── SECURITY.md        # Security policy
```

Understanding this structure will help you navigate the codebase and contribute effectively.

## Development Workflow

1. Make your changes in your feature branch
2. Run tests to ensure your changes don't break existing functionality
3. Commit your changes (see Commit Guidelines below)
4. Push to your fork and submit a pull request

## Coding Standards

### Naming Conventions

-   **PascalCase** for:

    -   Class names
    -   Interface names (with `I` prefix)
    -   Public members
    -   Constants
    -   Type parameters

-   **camelCase** for:

    -   Local variables
    -   Parameters
    -   Private fields (with underscore `_` prefix)

-   Use meaningful, descriptive names that represent purpose
-   Avoid abbreviations unless widely recognized
-   Use verb-noun pairs for method names (e.g., `GetData`, `ProcessFile`)
-   Use nouns for property names
-   Include 'Async' suffix for async methods

### Code Formatting

-   Use 4 spaces for indentation (not tabs)
-   Keep line length reasonable (< 120 characters)
-   Use parentheses to clarify code intent even when optional
-   Add spaces after keywords (if, for, while) but not after method names
-   Use proper XML documentation comments for public methods, classes, and interfaces
-   Keep methods focused on single responsibilities with < 30 lines when possible

### C# Best Practices

-   Prefer LINQ for data manipulation when appropriate
-   Use proper exception handling with specific exception types
-   Validate all inputs, especially file paths and user inputs
-   Use expression-bodied members for simple one-line methods and properties
-   Organize using directives alphabetically and remove unused ones
-   Use file-scoped namespaces
-   Explicitly specify access modifiers (public, private, etc.)
-   Prefer string interpolation over concatenation
-   Use `var` when the type is obvious from the right side of assignment
-   Use the latest C# language features appropriately
-   Embrace `null` handling with nullable reference types
-   Use pattern matching for type checking and data extraction
-   Prefer init-only properties for immutable data
-   Leverage records for data objects, especially DTOs

### Excel Processing Guidelines

-   Use ClosedXML for Excel file manipulation
-   Be aware that ClosedXML is single-threaded
-   Implement thread synchronization when multiple threads need access to ClosedXML operations
-   Implement proper data validation for RVTools-specific data formats
-   Handle Excel-specific exceptions gracefully (e.g., file not found, invalid format)

### Testing

-   Write unit tests for all core functionality
-   Create integration tests for file processing capabilities
-   Test with various RVTools export versions and formats
-   Include edge cases like malformed files, missing data, and extremely large datasets

## Pull Request Process

1. Update the README.md or documentation with details of changes if appropriate
2. Update the CHANGELOG.md with details of changes
3. The PR should work for Windows, macOS, and Linux (cross-platform compatibility)
4. Ensure all automated checks pass
5. PRs require approval from at least one maintainer before merging

## Commit Guidelines

-   Use the present tense ("Add feature" not "Added feature")
-   Use the imperative mood ("Move cursor to..." not "Moves cursor to...")
-   Limit the first line to 72 characters or less
-   Reference issues and pull requests after the first line
-   Consider using conventional commits format:
    -   feat: A new feature
    -   fix: A bug fix
    -   docs: Documentation only changes
    -   style: Changes that do not affect the meaning of the code
    -   refactor: A code change that neither fixes a bug nor adds a feature
    -   perf: A code change that improves performance
    -   test: Adding missing tests or correcting existing tests
    -   chore: Changes to the build process or auxiliary tools

## Communication

-   Use GitHub Issues for bug reports and feature requests
-   Use GitHub Discussions for questions and discussions
-   For sensitive matters, contact the maintainers directly

## License

By contributing, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under the project's MIT License.

Commit message:

docs: Enhance documentation with detailed guidelines for contributing, security practices, and column mappings

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to RVToolsMerge

First off, thank you for considering contributing to RVToolsMerge! It's people like you that make this tool better for everyone.

Following these guidelines helps to communicate that you respect the time of the developers managing and developing this open source project. In return, they should reciprocate that respect in addressing your issue, assessing changes, and helping you finalize your pull requests.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

-   [.NET 9 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download) or later
-   An IDE that supports C# (Visual Studio, Visual Studio Code with C# extension, Rider, etc.)
-   Basic knowledge of C# and .NET
-   Familiarity with Git and GitHub workflow

### Setting Up Development Environment

1. Fork the repository on GitHub
2. Clone your fork locally:
    ```
    git clone https://github.com/yourusername/RVToolsMerge.git
    ```
3. Add the original repository as a remote to keep your fork in sync:
    ```
    git remote add upstream https://github.com/sbroenne/RVToolsMerge.git
    ```
4. Create a branch for your changes:
    ```
    git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name
    ```

## Repository Structure

The repository follows standard GitHub practices:

```
RVToolsMerge/
├── .github/           # GitHub-specific files (workflows)
├── docs/              # Documentation files
├── src/               # Source code
│   └── RVToolsMerge/  # .NET project
├── CHANGELOG.md       # Version history
├── CONTRIBUTING.md    # Guidelines for contributors (this file)
├── LICENSE            # MIT License file
├── README.md          # Main documentation
├── run.bat            # Windows script to run the application
├── run.sh             # Linux/macOS script to run the application
└── SECURITY.md        # Security policy
```

Understanding this structure will help you navigate the codebase and contribute effectively.

## Development Workflow

1. Make your changes in your feature branch
2. Run tests to ensure your changes don't break existing functionality
3. Commit your changes (see Commit Guidelines below)
4. Push to your fork and submit a pull request

## Coding Standards

### Naming Conventions

-   **PascalCase** for:

    -   Class names
    -   Interface names (with `I` prefix)
    -   Public members
    -   Constants
    -   Type parameters

-   **camelCase** for:

    -   Local variables
    -   Parameters
    -   Private fields (with underscore `_` prefix)

-   Use meaningful, descriptive names that represent purpose
-   Avoid abbreviations unless widely recognized
-   Use verb-noun pairs for method names (e.g., `GetData`, `ProcessFile`)
-   Use nouns for property names
-   Include 'Async' suffix for async methods

### Code Formatting

-   Use 4 spaces for indentation (not tabs)
-   Keep line length reasonable (< 120 characters)
-   Use parentheses to clarify code intent even when optional
-   Add spaces after keywords (if, for, while) but not after method names
-   Use proper XML documentation comments for public methods, classes, and interfaces
-   Keep methods focused on single responsibilities with < 30 lines when possible

### C# Best Practices

-   Prefer LINQ for data manipulation when appropriate
-   Use proper exception handling with specific exception types
-   Validate all inputs, especially file paths and user inputs
-   Use expression-bodied members for simple one-line methods and properties
-   Organize using directives alphabetically and remove unused ones
-   Use file-scoped namespaces
-   Explicitly specify access modifiers (public, private, etc.)
-   Use `var` when the type is obvious from the right side of assignment
-   Use the latest C# language features (pattern matching, nullable reference types, etc.)
-   Embrace `null` handling with nullable reference types
-   Use pattern matching for type checking and data extraction
-   Prefer init-only properties for immutable data
-   Leverage records for data objects, especially DTOs
-   Prefer string interpolation over concatenation
-   Use `var` when the type is obvious from the right side of assignment
-   Use the latest C# language features appropriately
-   Embrace `null` handling with nullable reference types
-   Use pattern matching for type checking and data extraction
-   Prefer init-only properties for immutable data
-   Leverage records for data objects, especially DTOs

### Excel Processing Guidelines

-   Use ClosedXML for Excel file manipulation
-   Be aware that ClosedXML is single-threaded
-   Implement thread synchronization when multiple threads need access to ClosedXML operations
-   Implement proper data validation for RVTools-specific data formats
-   Handle Excel-specific exceptions gracefully (e.g., file not found, invalid format)

### UI Development with Spectre.Console

When working with console UI using Spectre.Console:

-   Always use `AnsiConsole.Write` instead of `AnsiConsole.Markup` for better performance
-   Use `Live` displays for dynamic content that changes frequently
-   Utilize `Prompt<T>` for type-safe user input with validation
-   Implement proper exception handling via `SafeExecution` extensions
-   Avoid repeated color markup in loops by pre-building strings
-   Use the Status API for long-running operations with indeterminate progress
-   Leverage word wrapping for better text display on different terminal sizes
-   Implement proper graceful exit with `IDisposable` patterns for live displays
-   Create rich, colorful tables for displaying data
-   Use progress bars for long-running operations
-   Display file trees for directory navigation
-   Use FigletText for application branding/header

### Testing

-   Write unit tests for all core functionality
-   Create integration tests for file processing capabilities
-   Test with various RVTools export versions and formats
-   Include edge cases like malformed files, missing data, and extremely large datasets

## Pull Request Process

1. Update the README.md or documentation with details of changes if appropriate
2. Update the CHANGELOG.md with details of changes
3. The PR should work for Windows, macOS, and Linux (cross-platform compatibility)
4. Ensure all automated checks pass
5. PRs require approval from at least one maintainer before merging

## Commit Guidelines

-   Use the present tense ("Add feature" not "Added feature")
-   Use the imperative mood ("Move cursor to..." not "Moves cursor to...")
-   Limit the first line to 72 characters or less
-   Reference issues and pull requests after the first line
-   Consider using conventional commits format:
    -   feat: A new feature
    -   fix: A bug fix
    -   docs: Documentation only changes
    -   style: Changes that do not affect the meaning of the code
    -   refactor: A code change that neither fixes a bug nor adds a feature
    -   perf: A code change that improves performance
    -   test: Adding missing tests or correcting existing tests
    -   chore: Changes to the build process or auxiliary tools

## Communication

-   Use GitHub Issues for bug reports and feature requests
-   Use GitHub Discussions for questions and discussions
-   For sensitive matters, contact the maintainers directly

## License

By contributing, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under the project's MIT License.
