README.md, before:

﻿# RVToolsMerge

[![.NET Build and Test](https://github.com/sbroenne/RVToolsMerge/actions/workflows/dotnet.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sbroenne/RVToolsMerge/actions/workflows/dotnet.yml)
[![CodeQL](https://github.com/sbroenne/RVToolsMerge/actions/workflows/codeql.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sbroenne/RVToolsMerge/actions/workflows/codeql.yml)
[![GitHub Advanced Security](https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub%20Advanced%20Security-enabled-brightgreen)](SECURITY.md)

A modern, cross-platform console application for merging one or multiple [RVTools](https://www.robware.net/rvtools/) export files into a single consolidated file. Supports anonymization of sensitive data.

> Created by Stefan Broenner (github.com/sbroenne) and contributors

## Overview

RVToolsMerge is a powerful command-line utility designed to consolidate multiple RVTools exports into one Excel file, making it easier to analyze VMware environment data from different sources.

Built with .NET 9, this cross-platform tool efficiently processes individual RVTools Excel files or entire directories, intelligently merging data from key sheets while ensuring consistency across the consolidated output.

As an independent, open-source project, RVToolsMerge is _not affiliated with_ the official RVTools application but works with its export data to provide additional functionality.

## Data Protection & Security

RVToolsMerge treats security and data protection as top priorities, especially when handling sensitive VMware infrastructure data:

### Key Data Protection Features

-   **Complete Anonymization**: Automatically replace sensitive identifiers with generic equivalents:

    -   VM names → vm1, vm2, vm3...
    -   DNS names → dns1, dns2, dns3...
    -   IP addresses → ip1, ip2, ip3...
    -   Cluster names → cluster1, cluster2...
    -   Host names → host1, host2...
    -   Datacenter names → datacenter1, datacenter2...

-   **Minimal Data Exposure**: The `--only-mandatory-columns` option limits data to essential fields only, preventing unnecessary exposure of sensitive information

-   **Consistent Anonymization**: Maintains relationships between data points even after anonymization (same VM names are consistently replaced with the same anonymized values across all sheets)

-   **Source Tracking Control**: Optional inclusion of source file information gives you control over data lineage visibility

These protection features make RVToolsMerge ideal for:

-   Creating sanitized reports for vendors and consultants
-   Sharing infrastructure data while maintaining confidentiality
-   Generating documentation that doesn't expose sensitive internal naming
-   Ensuring compliance with organization data-sharing policies

## Features

-   **High-Performance Processing**: Built with .NET 9 and optimized for speed and memory efficiency
-   **Rich Console Experience**: Beautiful console output with progress bars, status indicators, and colorful tables
-   **Intelligent Sheet Handling**: Combines multiple RVTools exports while validating required sheets and columns
-   **Flexible Processing Options**:
    -   Processes single files or entire directories of RVTools exports
    -   Includes only columns that appear in all source files
    -   Optionally ignores missing optional sheets
    -   Selectively includes only mandatory columns
    -   Adds source file tracking for data lineage
-   **Cross-Platform**: Runs on Windows, Linux, and macOS with native binaries for each platform
-   **Enterprise-Grade Error Handling**: Comprehensive validation with clear, actionable error messages

## Supported Sheets and Required Columns

RVToolsMerge processes the following key sheets from RVTools exports:

### Required and Optional Sheets

| Sheet Name     | Status       | Description                                  |
| -------------- | ------------ | -------------------------------------------- |
| **vInfo**      | **Required** | Core VM information (CPU, memory, OS)        |
| **vHost**      | Optional     | ESXi host configuration and performance data |
| **vPartition** | Optional     | VM disk partition information                |
| **vMemory**    | Optional     | VM memory configuration details              |

The `vInfo` sheet must be present in all processed files. The other sheets are considered optional and can be handled according to your configuration.

### Mandatory Columns by Sheet

Each sheet has specific required columns that must be present for proper processing:

#### vInfo Sheet (Required)

-   Template
-   SRM Placeholder
-   Powerstate
-   VM
-   CPUs
-   Memory
-   In Use MiB
-   OS according to the configuration file

#### vHost Sheet (Optional)

-   Host
-   Datacenter
-   Cluster
-   CPU Model
-   Speed
-   \# CPU
-   Cores per CPU
-   \# Cores
-   CPU usage %
-   \# Memory
-   Memory usage %

#### vPartition Sheet (Optional)

-   VM
-   Disk
-   Capacity MiB
-   Consumed MiB

#### vMemory Sheet (Optional)

-   VM
-   Size MiB
-   Reservation

## Column Name Mappings

The application standardizes column names across different RVTools exports. This helps handle variations in column naming between different versions of RVTools.

For a complete reference of all column mappings, see [Column Mappings Documentation](docs/ColumnMappings.md).

## Installation

Download the latest release for your platform from the [Releases page](https://github.com/sbroenne/RVToolsMerge/releases):

-   Windows (x64): `RVToolsMerge-windows-Release.zip`
-   Windows (ARM64): `RVToolsMerge-windows-arm64-Release.zip`
-   Linux (x64): `RVToolsMerge-linux-Release.zip`
-   macOS (ARM64): `RVToolsMerge-macos-arm64-Release.zip`

### Prerequisites

-   No additional prerequisites required! The application is published as a self-contained executable with all dependencies included.
-   Minimum disk space: ~30MB

## Usage

```
RVToolsMerge [options] inputPath [outputFile]
```

### Arguments

| Argument     | Description                                                | Default                                      |
| ------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| `inputPath`  | Path to an Excel file or folder containing RVTools exports | **Required**                                 |
| `outputFile` | Path where the merged file will be saved                   | `./RVTools_Merged.xlsx` in current directory |

### Options

| Option                         | Description                                            |
| ------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| `-h, --help, /?`               | Show the help message and exit                         |
| `-m, --ignore-missing-sheets`  | Process files even when optional sheets are missing    |
| `-i, --skip-invalid-files`     | Skip files that don't meet validation requirements     |
| `-a, --anonymize`              | Anonymize VM, DNS, Cluster, Host, and Datacenter names |
| `-M, --only-mandatory-columns` | Include only mandatory columns in the output           |
| `-s, --include-source`         | Add a 'Source File' column to track data origin        |
| `-e, --skip-empty-values`      | Skip rows with empty values in mandatory columns       |
| `-d, --debug`                  | Show detailed error information with stack traces      |

### Advanced Options

```cmd
:: Skip files with missing optional sheets
RVToolsMerge.exe -m C:\RVTools\Exports

:: Skip invalid files entirely
RVToolsMerge.exe -i C:\RVTools\Exports

:: Skip invalid files and ignore missing optional sheets in valid files
RVToolsMerge.exe -i -m C:\RVTools\Exports

:: Anonymize sensitive data
RVToolsMerge.exe -a C:\RVTools\Exports\RVTools.xlsx C:\Reports\Anonymized.xlsx

:: Include only mandatory columns
RVToolsMerge.exe -M C:\RVTools\Exports

:: Include source file information
RVToolsMerge.exe -s C:\RVTools\Exports

:: Skip rows with empty mandatory values
RVToolsMerge.exe -e C:\RVTools\Exports

:: Combine multiple options
RVToolsMerge.exe -a -M -s -e C:\RVTools\Exports C:\Reports\Complete_Analysis.xlsx
```

## Anonymization and Data Protection

RVToolsMerge offers robust data protection features for handling sensitive infrastructure information:

### Anonymization (-a, --anonymize)

When using the anonymization option, the following data is consistently anonymized:

-   VM names → vm1, vm2, vm3, etc.
-   DNS names → dns1, dns2, dns3, etc.
-   IP addresses → ip1, ip2, ip3, etc.
-   Cluster names → cluster1, cluster2, cluster3, etc.
-   Host names → host1, host2, host3, etc.
-   Datacenter names → datacenter1, datacenter2, datacenter3, etc.

Anonymization maintains internal data relationships, ensuring that the same original value always maps to the same anonymized value throughout all sheets, preserving data integrity while protecting sensitive information.

### Mandatory Columns Only Mode (-M, --only-mandatory-columns)

The mandatory columns only mode provides an additional layer of data protection by:

-   Including only essential columns required for analysis
-   Excluding potentially sensitive columns that might contain organization-specific information
-   Reducing the data footprint in the output file
-   Limiting exposure of non-essential infrastructure details

This option is particularly useful when:

-   Sharing reports with external parties
-   Creating documentation for public consumption
-   Generating simplified reports focused on specific metrics
-   Ensuring compliance with data sharing policies

### Combined Data Protection

For maximum data protection, combine multiple options:

```
RVToolsMerge -a -M -s /path/to/inputs /path/to/output.xlsx
```

This produces a streamlined report with only essential columns containing fully anonymized data while preserving all analytical value and relationships between data points. The `-s` option adds source tracking for better data lineage.

## Validation Behavior and Error Handling

RVToolsMerge implements robust validation to ensure data integrity:

### Validation Rules

-   **By default**: All required sheets with all mandatory columns must exist in all files
-   **With `-m` (ignore-missing-sheets)**:
    -   The vInfo sheet remains required in all files
    -   Optional sheets (vHost, vPartition, vMemory) can be missing
    -   Missing mandatory columns in optional sheets will cause errors unless handled by other options
-   **With `-i` (skip-invalid-files)**:
    -   Files without the required vInfo sheet will be skipped
    -   Files with vInfo sheet but missing mandatory vInfo columns will be skipped
    -   Files with optional sheets having missing mandatory columns will be skipped
-   **With `-e` (skip-empty-values)**:
    -   Rows with empty values in mandatory columns will be skipped from the output
    -   Without this option, rows with empty mandatory values are included (default behavior)
    -   Useful when you want to only include complete data records
-   **With both `-i` and `-m` together**:
    -   Files without vInfo sheet will be skipped
    -   Files with vInfo sheet but missing mandatory vInfo columns will be skipped
    -   Files with complete vInfo sheet but missing optional sheets will be processed
    -   Files with optional sheets missing mandatory columns will be processed, but those sheets may be excluded

## Sample Files

The project includes sample files in the `input` directory:

-   `default.xlsx`: Standard RVTools export format with all required sheets and columns
-   `altenativeColumnNames.xlsx`: Example file with alternative column naming variations

These files can be used to test the application and understand the expected format of RVTools exports.

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter issues while using RVToolsMerge:

| Issue                           | Recommended Action                                                               |
| ------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| General errors                  | Enable debug mode with `-d` to see detailed error information                    |
| Missing sheets errors           | Use `-m` to ignore missing optional sheets                                       |
| Files causing validation errors | Use `-i` to skip invalid files and continue processing others                    |
| Row count mismatches            | By default, rows with empty mandatory values are included; use `-e` to skip them |
| Low memory issues               | Process smaller batches of files                                                 |
| Permission errors               | Ensure you have write access to the output folder                                |
| Excel file locked               | Close any applications that might have the file open                             |
| Slow performance                | Check for antivirus scanning; consider excluding the working folders             |

## Technical Architecture

RVToolsMerge is built with .NET 9 and follows modern C# development practices:

### Key Components

-   **ClosedXML**: High-performance Excel file handling
-   **Spectre.Console**: Rich console UI with progress bars, tables, and colors
-   **Modern C# Features**: Using the latest C# features like records, pattern matching, and nullable reference types

## Building from Source

### Prerequisites

-   .NET 9.0 SDK or later

### Basic Build

```bash
git clone https://github.com/sbroenne/RVToolsMerge.git
cd RVToolsMerge
dotnet build -c Release
```

### Creating Deployable Packages

By default, `dotnet build` creates a framework-dependent build. For self-contained applications that don't require .NET runtime:

```bash
# For Windows x64
dotnet publish -c Release -r win-x64

# For Windows ARM64
dotnet publish -c Release -r win-arm64

# For Linux x64
dotnet publish -c Release -r linux-x64

# For macOS ARM64 (Apple Silicon)
dotnet publish -c Release -r osx-arm64
```

Output will be in `bin/Release/net9.0/{RID}/publish` directory, where `{RID}` is the runtime identifier.

### Development Workflow

When running from source with parameters, use a double-dash (`--`) to separate the `dotnet run` command from the application parameters:

```bash
# Basic syntax
dotnet run -- [options] [inputPath] [outputFile]

# Example
dotnet run -- -m -i C:\RVTools\Exports C:\Output\Merged.xlsx
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please follow these steps:

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

### Development Standards

This project follows strict development standards:

-   **Coding Style**: C# coding best practices with PascalCase for public members, camelCase for private fields
-   **Documentation**: XML documentation for all public methods and classes
-   **Error Handling**: Robust exception handling and validation

### Continuous Integration

This project uses GitHub Actions for automated workflows:

| Workflow         | Purpose                                         |
| ---------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| **Build & Test** | Validates code on every push and PR             |
| **Code Quality** | Static analysis and test coverage               |
| **Security**     | CodeQL scanning and vulnerability checks        |
| **Release**      | Creates versioned releases with artifacts       |
| **Dependencies** | Automated dependency management with Dependabot |

Detailed CI/CD documentation is available in [CI-CD.md](/docs/CI-CD.md).

### Version Management

The project follows [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/):

-   **major** (1.0.0 → 2.0.0): Incompatible API changes
-   **minor** (1.0.0 → 1.1.0): New backward-compatible functionality
-   **patch** (1.0.0 → 1.0.1): Backward-compatible bug fixes

Version bumping is managed through GitHub Actions workflows.

## Security

This project takes security seriously, with multiple layers of protection:

### GitHub Advanced Security Features

| Feature           | Status                        |
| ----------------- | ----------------------------- |
| CodeQL Analysis   | ✅ Enabled                    |
| Dependency Review | ✅ Enabled                    |
| Secret Scanning   | ✅ Enabled                    |
| Dependabot Alerts | ✅ Enabled                    |
| Security Policy   | ✅ [View Policy](SECURITY.md) |

### Security Practices

-   **Automated Scanning**: Regular code scanning for vulnerabilities
-   **Dependency Management**: Automated updates for security patches
-   **Secure Coding**: Following established security best practices
-   **Vulnerability Reporting**: Clear process for reporting security issues

For details on reporting security vulnerabilities, please see our [Security Policy](SECURITY.md).

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Project Structure

The project follows standard GitHub repository best practices:

```
RVToolsMerge/
├── .github/           # GitHub-specific files (workflows)
├── docs/              # Documentation files
├── src/               # Source code
│   └── RVToolsMerge/  # .NET project
├── CHANGELOG.md       # Version history
├── CONTRIBUTING.md    # Guidelines for contributors
├── LICENSE            # MIT License file
├── README.md          # This file
└── SECURITY.md        # Security policy
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for detailed guidelines on how to contribute to this project.

## Acknowledgments

-   [RVTools](https://www.robware.net/rvtools/) by Robware - This independent project works with data exported from RVTools but is not affiliated with, endorsed by, or connected to Robware or the official RVTools product
-   [ClosedXML](https://github.com/ClosedXML/ClosedXML) for excellent Excel file handling capabilities
-   [Spectre.Console](https://spectreconsole.net/) for beautiful console output and UX
-   [GitHub Copilot](https://github.com/features/copilot) using various models for AI assistance in code generation and development

Commit message:

docs: Enhance documentation with detailed guidelines for contributing, security practices, and column mappings

README.md, after:

﻿# RVToolsMerge

[![.NET Build and Test](https://github.com/sbroenne/RVToolsMerge/actions/workflows/dotnet.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sbroenne/RVToolsMerge/actions/workflows/dotnet.yml)
[![CodeQL](https://github.com/sbroenne/RVToolsMerge/actions/workflows/codeql.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sbroenne/RVToolsMerge/actions/workflows/codeql.yml)
[![GitHub Advanced Security](https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub%20Advanced%20Security-enabled-brightgreen)](SECURITY.md)

A modern, cross-platform console application for merging one or multiple [RVTools](https://www.robware.net/rvtools/) export files into a single consolidated file. Supports anonymization of sensitive data.

> Created by Stefan Broenner (github.com/sbroenne) and contributors

## What is RVTools?

[RVTools](https://www.robware.net/rvtools/) is a popular Windows application for exporting detailed inventory and configuration data from VMware vSphere environments to Excel files. It is widely used by VMware administrators for reporting and analysis.

## Overview

RVToolsMerge is a powerful command-line utility designed to consolidate multiple RVTools exports into one Excel file, making it easier to analyze VMware environment data from different sources.

Built with .NET 9, this cross-platform tool efficiently processes individual RVTools Excel files or entire directories, intelligently merging data from key sheets while ensuring consistency across the consolidated output.

As an independent, open-source project, RVToolsMerge is _not affiliated with_ the official RVTools application but works with its export data to provide additional functionality.

## Data Protection & Security

RVToolsMerge treats security and data protection as top priorities, especially when handling sensitive VMware infrastructure data:

### Key Data Protection Features

-   **Complete Anonymization**: Automatically replace sensitive identifiers with generic equivalents:

    -   VM names → vm1, vm2, vm3...
    -   DNS names → dns1, dns2, dns3...
    -   IP addresses → ip1, ip2, ip3...
    -   Cluster names → cluster1, cluster2...
    -   Host names → host1, host2...
    -   Datacenter names → datacenter1, datacenter2...

-   **Minimal Data Exposure**: The `--only-mandatory-columns` option limits data to essential fields only, preventing unnecessary exposure of sensitive information

-   **Consistent Anonymization**: Maintains relationships between data points even after anonymization (same VM names are consistently replaced with the same anonymized values across all sheets)

-   **Source Tracking Control**: Optional inclusion of source file information gives you control over data lineage visibility

These protection features make RVToolsMerge ideal for:

-   Creating sanitized reports for vendors and consultants
-   Sharing infrastructure data while maintaining confidentiality
-   Generating documentation that doesn't expose sensitive internal naming
-   Ensuring compliance with organization data-sharing policies

## Features

-   **High-Performance Processing**: Built with .NET 9 and optimized for speed and memory efficiency
-   **Rich Console Experience**: Beautiful console output with progress bars, status indicators, and colorful tables
-   **Intelligent Sheet Handling**: Combines multiple RVTools exports while validating required sheets and columns
-   **Flexible Processing Options**:
    -   Processes single files or entire directories of RVTools exports
    -   Includes only columns that appear in all source files
    -   Optionally ignores missing optional sheets
    -   Selectively includes only mandatory columns
    -   Adds source file tracking for data lineage
-   **Cross-Platform**: Runs on Windows, Linux, and macOS with native binaries for each platform
-   **Enterprise-Grade Error Handling**: Comprehensive validation with clear, actionable error messages

## Supported Sheets and Required Columns

RVToolsMerge processes the following key sheets from RVTools exports:

### Required and Optional Sheets

| Sheet Name     | Status       | Description                                  |
| -------------- | ------------ | -------------------------------------------- |
| **vInfo**      | **Required** | Core VM information (CPU, memory, OS)        |
| **vHost**      | Optional     | ESXi host configuration and performance data |
| **vPartition** | Optional     | VM disk partition information                |
| **vMemory**    | Optional     | VM memory configuration details              |

The `vInfo` sheet must be present in all processed files. The other sheets are considered optional and can be handled according to your configuration.

### Mandatory Columns by Sheet

Each sheet has specific required columns that must be present for proper processing:

#### vInfo Sheet (Required)

-   Template
-   SRM Placeholder
-   Powerstate
-   VM
-   CPUs
-   Memory
-   In Use MiB
-   OS according to the configuration file

#### vHost Sheet (Optional)

-   Host
-   Datacenter
-   Cluster
-   CPU Model
-   Speed
-   \# CPU
-   Cores per CPU
-   \# Cores
-   CPU usage %
-   \# Memory
-   Memory usage %

#### vPartition Sheet (Optional)

-   VM
-   Disk
-   Capacity MiB
-   Consumed MiB

#### vMemory Sheet (Optional)

-   VM
-   Size MiB
-   Reservation

## Column Name Mappings

The application standardizes column names across different RVTools exports. This helps handle variations in column naming between different versions of RVTools.

For a complete reference of all column mappings, see [Column Mappings Documentation](docs/ColumnMappings.md).

## Installation

Download the latest release for your platform from the [Releases page](https://github.com/sbroenne/RVToolsMerge/releases):

-   Windows (x64): `RVToolsMerge-windows-Release.zip`
-   Windows (ARM64): `RVToolsMerge-windows-arm64-Release.zip`
-   Linux (x64): `RVToolsMerge-linux-Release.zip`
-   macOS (ARM64): `RVToolsMerge-macos-arm64-Release.zip`

### Prerequisites

-   No additional prerequisites required! The application is published as a self-contained executable with all dependencies included.
-   Minimum disk space: ~30MB

## Usage

```
RVToolsMerge [options] inputPath [outputFile]
```

### Arguments

| Argument     | Description                                                | Default                                      |
| ------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| `inputPath`  | Path to an Excel file or folder containing RVTools exports | **Required**                                 |
| `outputFile` | Path where the merged file will be saved                   | `./RVTools_Merged.xlsx` in current directory |

### Options

| Option                         | Description                                            |
| ------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| `-h, --help, /?`               | Show the help message and exit                         |
| `-m, --ignore-missing-sheets`  | Process files even when optional sheets are missing    |
| `-i, --skip-invalid-files`     | Skip files that don't meet validation requirements     |
| `-a, --anonymize`              | Anonymize VM, DNS, Cluster, Host, and Datacenter names |
| `-M, --only-mandatory-columns` | Include only mandatory columns in the output           |
| `-s, --include-source`         | Add a 'Source File' column to track data origin        |
| `-e, --skip-empty-values`      | Skip rows with empty values in mandatory columns       |
| `-d, --debug`                  | Show detailed error information with stack traces      |

### Advanced Options

```cmd
:: Skip files with missing optional sheets
RVToolsMerge.exe -m C:\RVTools\Exports

:: Skip invalid files entirely
RVToolsMerge.exe -i C:\RVTools\Exports

:: Skip invalid files and ignore missing optional sheets in valid files
RVToolsMerge.exe -i -m C:\RVTools\Exports

:: Anonymize sensitive data
RVToolsMerge.exe -a C:\RVTools\Exports\RVTools.xlsx C:\Reports\Anonymized.xlsx

:: Include only mandatory columns
RVToolsMerge.exe -M C:\RVTools\Exports

:: Include source file information
RVToolsMerge.exe -s C:\RVTools\Exports

:: Skip rows with empty mandatory values
RVToolsMerge.exe -e C:\RVTools\Exports

:: Combine multiple options
RVToolsMerge.exe -a -M -s -e C:\RVTools\Exports C:\Reports\Complete_Analysis.xlsx
```

## Anonymization and Data Protection

RVToolsMerge offers robust data protection features for handling sensitive infrastructure information:

### Anonymization (-a, --anonymize)

When using the anonymization option, the following data is consistently anonymized:

-   VM names → vm1, vm2, vm3, etc.
-   DNS names → dns1, dns2, dns3, etc.
-   IP addresses → ip1, ip2, ip3, etc.
-   Cluster names → cluster1, cluster2, cluster3, etc.
-   Host names → host1, host2, host3, etc.
-   Datacenter names → datacenter1, datacenter2, datacenter3, etc.

Anonymization maintains internal data relationships, ensuring that the same original value always maps to the same anonymized value throughout all sheets, preserving data integrity while protecting sensitive information.

For more details on how anonymization is implemented, see the [Column Mappings Documentation](docs/ColumnMappings.md).

### Mandatory Columns Only Mode (-M, --only-mandatory-columns)

The mandatory columns only mode provides an additional layer of data protection by:

-   Including only essential columns required for analysis
-   Excluding potentially sensitive columns that might contain organization-specific information
-   Reducing the data footprint in the output file
-   Limiting exposure of non-essential infrastructure details

This option is particularly useful when:

-   Sharing reports with external parties
-   Creating documentation for public consumption
-   Generating simplified reports focused on specific metrics
-   Ensuring compliance with data sharing policies

### Combined Data Protection

For maximum data protection, combine multiple options:

```
RVToolsMerge -a -M -s /path/to/inputs /path/to/output.xlsx
```

This produces a streamlined report with only essential columns containing fully anonymized data while preserving all analytical value and relationships between data points. The `-s` option adds source tracking for better data lineage.

## Validation Behavior and Error Handling

RVToolsMerge implements robust validation to ensure data integrity:

### Validation Rules

-   **By default**: All required sheets with all mandatory columns must exist in all files
-   **With `-m` (ignore-missing-sheets)**:
    -   The vInfo sheet remains required in all files
    -   Optional sheets (vHost, vPartition, vMemory) can be missing
    -   Missing mandatory columns in optional sheets will cause errors unless handled by other options
-   **With `-i` (skip-invalid-files)**:
    -   Files without the required vInfo sheet will be skipped
    -   Files with vInfo sheet but missing mandatory vInfo columns will be skipped
    -   Files with optional sheets having missing mandatory columns will be skipped
-   **With `-e` (skip-empty-values)**:
    -   Rows with empty values in mandatory columns will be skipped from the output
    -   Without this option, rows with empty mandatory values are included (default behavior)
    -   Useful when you want to only include complete data records
-   **With both `-i` and `-m` together**:
    -   Files without vInfo sheet will be skipped
    -   Files with vInfo sheet but missing mandatory vInfo columns will be skipped
    -   Files with complete vInfo sheet but missing optional sheets will be processed
    -   Files with optional sheets missing mandatory columns will be processed, but those sheets may be excluded

## Sample Files

The project includes sample files in the `input` directory:

-   `default.xlsx`: Standard RVTools export format with all required sheets and columns
-   `altenativeColumnNames.xlsx`: Example file with alternative column naming variations

These files can be used to test the application and understand the expected format of RVTools exports.

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter issues while using RVToolsMerge:

| Issue                           | Recommended Action                                                               |
| ------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| General errors                  | Enable debug mode with `-d` to see detailed error information                    |
| Missing sheets errors           | Use `-m` to ignore missing optional sheets                                       |
| Files causing validation errors | Use `-i` to skip invalid files and continue processing others                    |
| Row count mismatches            | By default, rows with empty mandatory values are included; use `-e` to skip them |
| Low memory issues               | Process smaller batches of files                                                 |
| Permission errors               | Ensure you have write access to the output folder                                |
| Excel file locked               | Close any applications that might have the file open                             |
| Slow performance                | Check for antivirus scanning; consider excluding the working folders             |

## Technical Architecture

RVToolsMerge is built with .NET 9 and follows modern C# development practices:

### Key Components

-   **ClosedXML**: High-performance Excel file handling
-   **Spectre.Console**: Rich console UI with progress bars, tables, and colors
-   **Modern C# Features**: Using the latest C# features like records, pattern matching, and nullable reference types

## Building from Source

### Prerequisites

-   .NET 9.0 SDK or later

### Basic Build

```bash
git clone https://github.com/sbroenne/RVToolsMerge.git
cd RVToolsMerge
dotnet build -c Release
```

### Creating Deployable Packages

By default, `dotnet build` creates a framework-dependent build. For self-contained applications that don't require .NET runtime:

```bash
# For Windows x64
dotnet publish -c Release -r win-x64

# For Windows ARM64
dotnet publish -c Release -r win-arm64

# For Linux x64
dotnet publish -c Release -r linux-x64

# For macOS ARM64 (Apple Silicon)
dotnet publish -c Release -r osx-arm64
```

Output will be in `bin/Release/net9.0/{RID}/publish` directory, where `{RID}` is the runtime identifier.

### Development Workflow

When running from source with parameters, use a double-dash (`--`) to separate the `dotnet run` command from the application parameters:

```bash
# Basic syntax
dotnet run -- [options] [inputPath] [outputFile]

# Example
dotnet run -- -m -i C:\RVTools\Exports C:\Output\Merged.xlsx
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please follow these steps:

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

### Development Standards

This project follows strict development standards:

-   **Coding Style**: C# coding best practices with PascalCase for public members, camelCase for private fields
-   **Documentation**: XML documentation for all public methods and classes
-   **Error Handling**: Robust exception handling and validation

### Continuous Integration

This project uses GitHub Actions for automated workflows:

| Workflow         | Purpose                                         |
| ---------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| **Build & Test** | Validates code on every push and PR             |
| **Code Quality** | Static analysis and test coverage               |
| **Security**     | CodeQL scanning and vulnerability checks        |
| **Release**      | Creates versioned releases with artifacts       |
| **Dependencies** | Automated dependency management with Dependabot |

Detailed CI/CD documentation is available in [CI-CD.md](/docs/CI-CD.md).

### Version Management

The project follows [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/):

-   **major** (1.0.0 → 2.0.0): Incompatible API changes
-   **minor** (1.0.0 → 1.1.0): New backward-compatible functionality
-   **patch** (1.0.0 → 1.0.1): Backward-compatible bug fixes

Version bumping is managed through GitHub Actions workflows.

## Security

This project takes security seriously, with multiple layers of protection:

### GitHub Advanced Security Features

| Feature           | Status                        |
| ----------------- | ----------------------------- |
| CodeQL Analysis   | ✅ Enabled                    |
| Dependency Review | ✅ Enabled                    |
| Secret Scanning   | ✅ Enabled                    |
| Dependabot Alerts | ✅ Enabled                    |
| Security Policy   | ✅ [View Policy](SECURITY.md) |

### Security Practices

-   **Automated Scanning**: Regular code scanning for vulnerabilities
-   **Dependency Management**: Automated updates for security patches
-   **Secure Coding**: Following established security best practices
-   **Vulnerability Reporting**: Clear process for reporting security issues

For details on reporting security vulnerabilities, please see our [Security Policy](SECURITY.md).

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Project Structure

The project follows standard GitHub repository best practices:

```
RVToolsMerge/
├── .github/           # GitHub-specific files (workflows)
├── docs/              # Documentation files
├── Input/             # Sample input files
├── src/               # Source code
│   └── RVToolsMerge/  # .NET project
│       ├── Configuration/ # Configuration settings
│       ├── Exceptions/    # Custom exception classes
│       ├── Models/        # Data models and DTOs
│       ├── Services/      # Service implementations
│       │   └── Interfaces/ # Service interfaces
│       └── UI/            # User interface components
├── CHANGELOG.md       # Version history
├── CONTRIBUTING.md    # Guidelines for contributors
├── LICENSE            # MIT License file
├── README.md          # This file
├── run.bat            # Windows script to run the application
├── run.sh             # Linux/macOS script to run the application
└── SECURITY.md        # Security policy
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for detailed guidelines on how to contribute to this project.

## Acknowledgments

-   [RVTools](https://www.robware.net/rvtools/) by Robware - This independent project works with data exported from RVTools but is not affiliated with, endorsed by, or connected to Robware or the official RVTools product
-   [ClosedXML](https://github.com/ClosedXML/ClosedXML) for excellent Excel file handling capabilities
-   [Spectre.Console](https://spectreconsole.net/) for beautiful console output and UX
-   [GitHub Copilot](https://github.com/features/copilot) using various models for AI assistance in code generation and development
